# Settings package
This folder is the package transition of the 'settings.py' file generated by "django-admin startproject" using Django 4.2.5.

## Package usage
This package was created with the intention of making the settings module more maintanable and extendable by subdividing reponsabilities and environments:

```python
from .base import *

ENVIRONMENT = os.environ.get("DJANGO_ENV", "development")
if ENVIRONMENT == "production":
    from .production import *
else:
    from .development import *
```

### base.py
Contains the common configuration to all environments and it's loaded first so that environment specific configuration overwrite it on load.

### development.py
As it's name suggests it contains the default configuration for development. In general it's less secured to be able to obtain debugging metrics from the internals of the app.
### production.py
As it's name suggests it contains the default configuration for production. More secure than the development defaults but at the same time it blocks not specifically allowed operations and external connections.

## Package contents
The various sections of a normal django app settings file have been extracted and separated in their own files to both isolate and simplify browsing and modification:
###0. constants.py
Contains settings wide common constants like the location of the root folder and logs folder.
###1. app_def.py
Contains the order and the applications/middleware that django must load inside the full running application. 
Both internal(provided by default) and external(installed or downloaded from providers) must by loaded here. 
Django provides auto configuration for the internal apps but the external apps must provide their own configuration in the form of dictionaries that must be saved either here or in the misc_def.py file.
###2. db_def.py
Provides the connection configuration for the database in use by the orm.
###3. auth_int_static_def
Provides the configuration for three categories:
- Authentication and security
- Internationalization
- Static file management
If needed each one could be further extracted into their own module but due the simplicity of this settings for this project they have been grouped together.
TODO - 231004: Revisit this topic for refactoring later on.
###4. misc_def.py
Contains the configuration dictionaries of the external apps.
TODO - 231004: Revisit this topic for refactoring later on: Divide in two files and rename to:
- app_internal_config 
- app_external_config
###5. logging.py
Contains all the configuration logic of the django logging module. Django contains it's own logging framework built on top of the standard library module of the same name offering simple, safe and sane defaults out of the box. 
This file allows to extend this configuration and adding aditional [loggers](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logger-objects) and [handlers](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#handler-objects) for operations like creating log files.

For more information on this file/module/package, see
[more info in settings.py](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/settings/)

For the full list of settings and their values, see
[django-app-settings-docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/ref/settings/)